if you do those things and this is all
detail in glucose Revolution you will
fundamentally change the biochemistry of
your body
Jesse welcome to the show thank you so
much for having me I'm excited to have
you and I want to know what are foods
that people like the top foods that
people should be eating that would help
with losing weight and reducing
inflammation
foods that contain fiber so all
vegetables fiber fiber is amazing she's
a superhuman because fiber is incredibly
protective in your digestive system
especially in your gut lining so in the
intestinal walls to reduce any glucose
spikes from foods like starches and
sugars that you might be eating so we
need to use Fiber to our advantage and
because glucose is going to be the
punchline problem because avoiding
glucose spikes is one really efficient
way
to go about making your health better
physical and mental what about fat loss
I know people care yeah so fat loss is
definitely one of the consequences of
keeping your glucose levels steady
however you know my work on teaching
people about glucose is not a diet and
its primary objective is not fat loss
its primary objective is to help the 80
odd percent of the population who have
glucose spikes every day avoid those
spikes so that Cravings reduce hunger
reduces energy goes back up you feel
better your body your mind are thriving
the common consequence is fat loss but
that's not the primary angle that we're
going after we're going after Health
First
and is that because you are more
concerned about how people feel than how
they look is that why because you're
going out of your way to be like it's
not about fat loss people love that fat
loss I know they love it but I think
there's a few things here like the
amount of fat you have on your body is
not a very good representation of like
your internal health so some people who
are not able to put on fats yeah some
people who are not able to put on fat
will develop type 2 diabetes earlier on
because fat is actually protective your
body puts on fat to protect you every
time you have a glucose Spike so very
rapid increase in blood sugar
concentration your body wants to get
that level down your body does not want
to keep you in a state of elevated
glucose because that leads to
inflammation aging insulin like it's
just a nightmare so your body has a few
techniques to take the excess glucose
and store it away to protect you and it
puts the excess glucose in your liver in
your muscles and in your fat cells so
your ability as a human to grow all the
size and number of your fat cells is a
very good indication of how quickly
you're going to develop type 2 diabetes
if you can put on a lot of weight if you
can store that glucose away into fat
cells for a long amount of time you're
going to be protected for longer if you
are for example of Asian descent and you
have a hard time
growing the number and size of your fat
cells your glucose is going to be
elevated faster and that's why we see a
lot of people who developed type 2
diabetes who are actually not that fat
but they have really high glucose and
insulin levels just because they
genetically cannot put on fat too
quickly so
fat gain is actually your protection so
that's number one I understand people
want to lose fat and that's a totally
okay thing to want to do but the way
we're going about it often you just snap
back you lose a bunch of weight you snap
back right because you're doing these
extreme things like cutting calories
really excessively or doing crazy diets
if we look at our glucose levels and we
eat in a way that balances those spikes
a few things happen one we reduce how
many Cravings we have cravings are a big
barrier to Fat Loss because people
get these intense feelings for why I
really want to eat a cookie then there's
a whole cycle of guilt and shame and
just the whole thing is like quite
damaging second when you balance your
glucose levels your hunger hormones get
tamed so you're no longer hungry every
90 minutes third thing when you balance
your glucose levels your insulin levels
come down and in order to lose fat your
insulin levels have to be down so what I
see in my community and the readers of
my book is that when they focus on
glucose first they sort of naturally
lose fat as a side effect as a
consequence but the primary objective is
I want to feel better now
I want to stop getting this chronic
fatigue I want to get my mental health
back in shape I want my sleep to be good
I just want to feel better and also I
want to feel connected to my body that's
really the primary angle some people
come at it for from like my skin is bad
I want to get my skin better other
people come at it from I'm having
hormonal issues like PCOS erectile
dysfunction whatever they get to glucose
they study that and weight loss is a
nice consequence okay so fiber yeah
we're we're going to be eating fiber
we're going to protect the gut lining
we're going to slow the absorption of
glucose so that we're regulating our
glucose response what are some other
things that we should be eating protein
is really important it's it helps your
body's digestion go a bit slower so if
you eat protein with carbs the carbs
will get more slowly into your intestine
and then slower into your bloodstream as
well healthy fats also important so
basically you need to be thinking I need
to eat vegetables I need sources of
proteins sources of healthy fats and
then starches and sugars which are the
ones that contain glucose they're fine
to eat but therefore taste therefore
pleasure they're there because they're
cheap to eat they're everywhere we like
them they're a nice social activity to
make a big plate of pasta for your
friends but they're really just mostly
for pleasure purposes and so the problem
we're having these days in our society
is that most people are eating just
starches and just sugars right because
it's cheap it's available it makes you
feel pleasure in your brain but as a
result their glucose is completely all
over the place so I'm not in the camp of
like completely cut out starches and
sugars I think that's unsustainable for
most people I don't think that's very
fun because I love pasta and chocolate
cake and I do not want to give it up so
what I teach people is these nice
principles that allow you to still eat
the starches and the sugars with less
impact on your glucose and your health
so maximum pleasure minimal impact on
your body and your mind what about I've
heard you talk a lot about vinegar which
I've never really made my radar until
reading your book why vinegar so it's
really fascinating Tom so when I first
came across these studies I was like
this must be a fad like this must be
another like internet Wellness Trend
like I just was very very skeptical
turns out there are quite a few like
good randomized control trials showing
that if you add a tablespoon of vinegar
at the beginning of a meal you can
reduce the glucose Spike of that meal by
up to 30 percent without changing what
you're eating it's shocking it is
shocking but is it really that shocking
because in many cultures around the
world we've been having vinegar for a
super long time in Egypt like ancient
Egypt they would make vinegar teas for
people who had diabetes in Iran they've
been making apple cider vinegar for
Generations you know it's like a it's
just part of culture so now we're
understanding the scientific explanation
for why it's helpful but I think all of
these things we've known culturally for
a long time but now we're able to see
like how it actually affects the inside
of the body how does it what's it
actually
I'm assuming it has something to do with
glucose it does so
um in vinegar there's this molecule
called acetic acid
acetic acid is the thing that does the
work so acetic acid does two actually
three main things
the first thing is that in your stomach
acetic acid inactivates Alpha amylase
which is an enzyme that breaks down
starches into glucose so vinegar slows
down the action of this enzyme therefore
slowing down how quickly starch gets
broken down into glucose molecules
and so that means that glucose gets into
your intestine more slowly which is what
we're here to do right we want to reduce
the speed velocity of the glucose
getting into your bloodstream second
thing that acetic acid does it goes to
your muscles and it tells your muscles
to soak up glucose as it arrives into
your bloodstream I wouldn't say it's
mimics exercise but it kind of tells
your muscles to soak up glucose more
actively as if they were Contracting and
third thing acetic acid goes to your
mitochondria and tells your mitochondria
to burn more fat so you have this
amazing little molecule that acts
instantly by the way like it's not
something that you have to build it up
over weeks like if today your next meal
you just add a tablespoon of vinegar to
it or you drink it in a tall glass of
water it will have an impact on your
glucose levels right there and then
so okay now that we know the the broad
swath of things that people should be
eating actually before we go too far
down the vinegar thing
let's talk about food timing that's one
of the big punch lines of your book and
it ties directly into what we just
talked about which is the what you
should eat
but even the order in which we eat
things can have similar impacts to the
things you just talked about so walk me
through how do we change up the order
which by the way since I know the
punchline I will say I actually did this
today yeah yeah I was like oh my God I
can't believe it has this kind of impact
so how did you feel this is one I think
no different because I eat so clean
already so it wasn't a big departure for
me so it was instead of eating protein
and vegetables I I don't want to give it
away so anyway
I know it's terrible okay so in the
scientific studies here's what we see we
see that if we eat the constituents of a
meal in a specific order we can reduce
the glucose bike of the meal by up to 75
percent without changing what we're
eating God this so like these numbers
are really yeah impressive yeah so we're
not changing what we're eating but if we
change the order we reduce the spike so
significantly which means less
inflammation less aging you know better
hormone balance I mean we just feel much
better so the correct order is
vegetables first
proteins and fats second and starches
and sugars last the Sugar's last thing
makes sense you know dessert is always
usually last and actually when you think
about it the vegetables first thing
culturally like this has been happening
for a long time especially in Europe
like in France we have
kurite's antipasti in the Middle East
you know they often have herbs by the
bunch on the table before the meal
starts and the reason this works is
because of the that fiber in the
vegetables so the Fiber goes from your
stomach to your upper intestine and
there it kind of deploys itself like a
Transformers onto the walls of your
intestine and mixes protective mesh this
protective barrier kind of like this
gooey gooey kind of thing did you ever
read the book The fiber Menace no
foreign
so all of this stuff gets really
interesting very complex one minute it's
bad the next minute it's good so it's
always hard to figure out what the sort
of final word is but the the fiber
Menace is a book that's like hey all
these things about fiber that you think
are good are actually bad like even
thinking about
as I go through your book I'm like this
is really effective for people if you
can't get them to stop eating a modern
diet
but if you could get them to stop eating
a modern diet like just no starches no
sugars yeah exactly like don't eat
sugars or eat sugar or eat um like
berries and things where from an
ancestral standpoint we only would have
been able to eat a lot of fruit like in
the fall right before we need to fatten
up for the winter it's right so we
actually want to get fat and so it's
like does fiber work because it's good
for you and it's like Nature's way of
saying hey you can have your cake and
eat it too or is it actually causing a
problem it's stopping the digestion of
things you're eating it's creating a
barrier that's stopping you from
absorbing nutrients and it just so
happens that since most people have
access to so many calories and they're
eating the wrong kinds of calories for
the most part that fiber sort of
accidentally will help you but in
reality it's creating problems now again
that's not necessarily what I believe I
don't know what to believe so my thing
is I and I think actually I'm gonna
weigh and see your processing which I
like I actually really I like I really
like what you're saying because fiber is
only really useful in the context of
other bad stuff that you're eating well
I don't want to say bad but like other
things that could cause problems okay so
people can throw the shade at me okay
cool so imagine like you take a piece of
fruit right so fruit has a bunch of
glucose and fructose in it fructose is
not something you want a lot of
interesting diet exactly but since
there's fiber in there it's less bad for
you and actually if you look at
ancestral fruit from like millions of
years ago they have way more fiber in
them like way way way more there's a
photo in my book showing ancestral
banana versus banana these days it has
been bred for centuries you know wolves
into Chihuahuas and social bananas into
these things so the fiber is helpful
today in modern fruits because it helps
combat some of the bad side effects of
eating so much sugar but I kind of I
think I think you have a really good
point it's like
fiber first is only really important if
you're gonna eat starches and sugars
later right if you're in a context of
already not eating much starches and
sugars the order is much less important
okay so going into glucose so this is my
I'm obsessed with glucose so I I come
from a morbidly obese family I used to
be about 60 pounds heavier than I am now
and I remember when I first got married
Lisa hates when I tell the story so I
want to be very clear my wife has always
loved me supported me has been amazing
but there was a period in our lives
where she was very nervous that I was
going to have very poor habits and end
up with a physique that was moving in
the wrong direction and so I was eating
less than I'd ever eaten I was hungry
all the time and I was getting fat
and I was like what is going on because
I was doing a low-fat high carb diet so
you felt like [__] crap felt terrible
I was wildly inflamed of course I didn't
know that wouldn't have even known to
use that word correct and it was not
good and so thankfully at that point I'm
like whoa I know where this leads
because of my family's struggles I
really need to learn about nutrition at
first of course I attack it from an
exercise standpoint I'm just trying to
exercise my way there as I'm sure this
audience has heard a thousand times you
can't outrun a bad diet so it was like
that wasn't really working but that
actually did show me that I could put on
muscle which is quite exciting and going
through that and starting to learn about
this thing at the time Atkins and low
carb and I was like okay let me try this
thing it was transformative it was total
[__] misery clicking over to where I
was no longer addicted to sugar and so
that took about three weeks I remember
Lisa and I getting in a huge argument
because I was like if I eat a cookie
right now I'll feel better better and
she's like they need the cookie but stop
complaining and I was like oh man but I
really want to get to the other side of
this and so I didn't eat the cookie and
it it took three weeks but I woke up one
morning and now I would know what I was
doing is burning ketones
but I just felt like whoa I feel
different all of a sudden I don't feel
like anything is missing I don't have
this weird relationship to hunger and it
was literally one morning I woke up and
just felt radically different so you had
stopped cold turkey all carbs a hundred
percent
other than vegetables but like not
starchy no potatoes like broccoli green
beans that kind of stuff wow and so and
that's one thing I'm gonna see how many
people I can piss off right now so I
think that people often
they like they will get triggered by me
saying uh Hey wearing a continuous
glucose monitor is awesome I think
everybody should do it I've even heard
you say that maybe not everybody should
wear one I'm like people should wear one
at least for like a month to see how
what you eat does to you and if you're
willing to experiment you will find the
PATH forward it won't be fun people can
I can predict all the things that people
are going to hit in terms of if you've
got gut issues which I've been through
with my wife here's what that's going to
look like if you are addicted to Sugar
here's what that's going to look like
here are all the places that Sugar's
hiding you're gonna have to figure all
that [__] out and then by the way you're
gonna have to start judging how it
impacts your body because there's no one
size fits all it's going to be different
for everybody so what like you were
talking about people I would call skinny
fat where they don't have the adipose
tissue but they have all the biomarkers
of somebody that is has a terrible diet
for those CGM that continuous glucose
monitor piece I would say two things I
would say one if you're going to wear a
CGM and you're listening to this buy my
book glucose Revolution and read it
because it will give you the context
that will allow you to understand what's
happening and make the changes
what is the context the context is what
is glucose
how why these glucose spikes you're
seeing are harming your body okay what
are they doing on the actual biological
level like what's happening
second 10 really simple principles that
allow you to avoid these glucose spikes
without needing to go cold turkey like
you because you're hardcore and then
third what are the pitfalls to not fall
into because if you wear a CGM and
you're just optimizing for your glucose
you could actually
drink a [__] ton of alcohol
eat a bunch of unhealthy fatty foods and
stop exercising because you're going to
see that if you do those three things
your glucose levels are flatter so
that's a brilliant point so yes it's
important it's an amazing lens through
which to understand your body and it's
really it's really powerful but you need
to do it right because you can do it
wrong like I did vegan wrong when I was
younger and I only ate pasta and Oreos
like I did yeah because they're vegan
right pasta and Oreos it looks horrible
I'm shocked and then I did keto I did
that completely wrong my period stopped
like whoa on keto yeah because in a
female body these extreme things have an
impact on your hormonal system so this
is why people don't test on you P.S
absolutely and that's why so many of
these studies on fasting on whatever are
done on males because hello males have a
24-hour hormonal cycle we have a 28 day
hormonal cycle very different situation
way too complicated okay so let's take
these one by one that's fascinating okay
so what is glucose so glucose is your
body's preferred energy source you
mentioned ketones earlier Ketone is also
a great energy G Source but glucose is
going to be used first if it's there
basically every single cell in your body
uses glucose for energy so my hand cells
are using glucose finale to contract
your brain cells are using glucose to
think and look at me and speak your
heart cells are using glucose to pump
okay your body needs glucose and
preferably runs on glucose
every single living thing on this planet
also runs on glucose from Plants to
dolphins to humans
plants oh yeah so plants are the ones
that bring glucose to the Earth they're
uptaking glucose from the soil
no they're creating gluten they create
glucose from photosynthesis so create
yes so I guess that needs to be
self-evident that they are glucose they
create and they are it and they burn it
so if we didn't have plants we wouldn't
have life plants because their version
of ATP so glucose is burned to create
ATP so they create ATP as well yeah
absolutely all living things do so
plants through photosynthesis fix the
carbon of the air and turn it into
glucose molecules and then this glucose
is turned into fiber it's turned into
fructose it's turned into other things
it's burned for energy it's used as
building blocks to make the plant when
you look at a tree that's glucose that
was made out of glucose from the air and
then turned into stuff that's so weird
so weird and so every living thing runs
on glucose or is glucose paper is
glucose in my book I say if you're
reading this book on paper you're
reading a book about glucose printed on
glucose yeah so that's true it's so
fascinating and so we humans we can't
photosynthesize right I mean we could
try but it doesn't work we need to get
glucose to food
so we usually eat foods like starches
and sugars to get glucose to our body
but
when you think about a dolphin for
example a dolphin doesn't eat pasta and
cake so how does a dolphin get the
glucose that it needs to make its
organism function well if you don't eat
glucose your body will make it from
within so when you completely cut out
all glucose sources from your diet
some parts of your body are going to
start running on fat on ketones but the
parts of your body that need glucose are
your body is going to make glucose from
within from the protein and the fat
you're eating so that's how dependent we
are on this thing that if we don't eat
it we make it from inside
okay so
um but as we understand that part of the
equation what I want to ask is why if if
it is so necessary why is it also so
toxic
fantastic question so imagine I gave you
a plant and I was like Tom take care of
this plant for two months please you
would take that plant and you would know
that you have to give the plants some
water every day for it to survive right
you would give it a bit of water but if
you give that plant too much water
that plant is going to drown and I'm
going to come back after two months my
plan will be dead and I'm going to be
pissed off
just like plants need some water but too
much drowns them a human being needs
some glucose but too much glucose causes
issues which is kind of not intuitive
because you would think well if it gives
my cells energy I should just give them
as much energy as possible by eating as
much glucose as possible I certainly
wouldn't it so that part I get so no I
wouldn't think that just more more okay
more but knowing the punch line about
glycated tissues I'm like uh like it
just seems overly reactive and toxic if
it's useful walk people through you've
said that glycation basically is aging
that they're the same thing
walk us through that okay it just seems
so bizarre that this thing that I have
to have that I'll make on my own if I
need to is also the thing that's killing
me 92 percent of people that set a New
Year's goal fail to achieve it which is
why I've created a 90-day challenge
designed specifically to ensure that you
hit your goals you really can radically
transform yourself just click the link
below to join me and the entire impact
Theory university community to kick off
2023 right with the impact 90 challenge
right guys now back to the episode
that's a that's an extreme way to put it
but yes it's gonna cause issues at high
doses it's going to cause issues when
those glucose spikes get to levels that
are too high is it only if it spikes
it's not right no matter what if a
glucose molecule bumps into something it
sticks to it forever yes it is now
damaged and I have glycated kind of like
a piece of toast yes stealing your words
yes but your cells regenerate right so
it's glycated forever but then those
cells can die those molecules can be
recycled the problem is when there's so
much glycation or so much inflammation
that your body can no longer neutralize
and like take care of it you know what I
mean it's like we all have cancer cells
within us but normally our body is able
to see oh that one's not good we're just
going to throw it away and make a new
one the problem becomes when the cancer
cells are just multiplying multiplying
multiplying and your body can't do
anything about it anymore it's kind of
the same for glucose there's a lot of
stuff happening in a body all the time
like every second there's billions of
molecules going through each of your
cell membranes this is like
mind-boggling so there's a sort of Base
state of glycation happening and that's
normal aging but then the problem comes
when there's too much of it happening
too often
so to get back to what you're asking
like what happens in the body
there are three main mechanisms that
take place underneath our skin that are
important to know about when it comes to
glucose spikes
so the first thing that happens when
your glucose spikes too high to a level
that is not healthy for your body is
that your mitochondria so the little
organelles in your cells that make
energy they become overwhelmed your
mitochondria are actually in charge of
turning glucose into energy they want
some glucose to be able to make energy
but if you give them too much glucose
they go on strike they're like I cannot
I cannot today this is I just can't it's
too much too fast for them to handle so
they just shut down
your mitochondria is shutting down then
produces free radicals in your body
these free radicals lead to oxidative
stress lead to inflammation that's one
of the main pathways
the second thing that happens is the
glycation thing you just mentioned so
from the moment we're born we're slowly
glycating we're slowly aging it's kind
of like cooking when you're fully cooked
you die we can't I love that you said
that with a smile it's true when we're
fully cooked we die and that's okay
that's just part of you know
The Human Condition
We Can't Stop glycation although many
people who want to live forever are
trying to stop please but we can slow it
down or speed it up and every time we
have a glucose bike we're speeding it up
that's really the punch line it's not
like let me ask you if we had the same
amount of sugar go through our system
glucose go through our system
but in one case I like gobble it all in
the morning and it's massive Spike and
then nothing for the next you know 23
hours and 49 minutes uh and then in the
other one it's either through eating
fiber and vinegar and doing the things I
need to do to slow it down or just
because I really spread that [__] out
which of those is going to age me faster
same amount of glucose the spike
interesting so we know that we know that
yeah we know that so these spikes are
the most harmful to your cells and the
first ones actually that suffer the most
from these spikes just just so you know
are the cells that are lining your blood
vessels so those
the what's been studied is actually in
those particular cells like what's worse
and what's better a very rapid increase
in a very rapid drop or something more
steady same quantity but just steadier
over time
the spikes are what's causing the most
damage it was causing the most the
variability is really the issue here and
so all the hacks I share are actually
acting on that particular thing I'm not
telling you you have to cut out the cake
and the pasta and the whatever I'm
teaching you
really easy tips that allow you to
spread the glucose release out so that
you have fewer consequences on your
health
and you know these big spikes we also
feel them consciously like we can feel
really jittery and anxious when we have
the high and then that crash that crash
activates the creating Center in your
brain Tom and your brain then tells your
mind you must eat something sweet right
now it makes you tired and makes you
hungry like it's just the spike in the
drop of the bad news it is the fatigue
because the variability in the blood
glucose triggers a lowering of the rate
of creation of ATP like is the
mitochondria actually slowing down
because you really do feel like for real
tired like I'm gonna fall asleep
and that's why I was surprised that um
going keto you said you did it poorly
but keto for me changed everything yeah
because when I went keto I I had a
different relationship to hunger it
wasn't that I didn't get hungry it was
that it didn't make me fatigued or
cloudy headed or frustrated I'm just
like oh I'm hungry I want to eat you
know how I felt when I was on keto I
felt like
aggressive like I felt like an animal
like Angry oh no no no no no no like
it's as if my brain switched into like a
I'm gonna [__] like Crush everything
yeah it felt it felt very different to
my normal personality it was like nice
why I I think it's just burning fat
instead of burning glucose it to me I
was like maybe this is what it feels
like when you're a man and like you're
running on you're you're fasting and you
have to go like kill the [__] Mammoth
or I don't know I don't know for me it
felt like a different personality it
felt very like um
like animalistic almost I was not in my
emotions anymore I was just like
that is fascinating don't cross me or
I'll [__] bite you like that that's
how it felt to me but not hangry from a
very different place from a place of
like just like aggression masculine
energy that is utterly fascinating I've
never heard that before I've never told
that to anybody before I'm really
curious to see if it influenced your
testosterone levels or something it's
possible because my period stopped yeah
so um I am you know I have very regular
Cycles I'm super healthy but then when I
did that and I was young I was probably
21 or something I just didn't have a
period anymore just stopped for like
four months and I was like and it came
right back as soon as you went off well
no it didn't come right back like it
came back probably two weeks after did
you lose fat
no I mean I was I was like I just was
like this you know I didn't have much
fat Mass
um but I didn't need to sleep very much
so I would just go to bed wake up five
hours later when now I need nine hours
didn't have my period anymore I felt
like an animal
um I just it just was like a experience
just to show you how powerful it is when
you change what you eat so that was too
far for me like I don't want to be I
don't want to live there yeah but it was
such an interesting experience and for
you such a different experience right
for you it's like Bliss for me this
information and these hacks for me
that's Bliss I feel amazing amazing
energy no Cravings level-headed happy
but the keto thing
that's really interesting so keto is the
one thing that I would say is as close
to Universal that's not true the closest
thing I will say everybody should try is
cutting out sugar
um after that and nothing works for
everybody but after that I would say
keto is something everyone should try
now like you if it takes you somewhere
that you don't want to go fair enough
but yeah in terms of something people
should experiment with for the cutting
out sugar thing I agree with you like I
think sugar really is just for pleasure
like there's no benefit to eating sugar
but I think for most people cutting it
out cold turkey is really painful
challenging stressful so I kind of
encourage people to to take a step
before that which is you're probably on
a sugar addiction roller coaster every
single day of your life so step one like
use my hacks so you can still eat sugar
without creating the roller coaster so
you're still getting the pleasure but
you're not triggering these cycles of
Cravings that you're on day in day out
and all of a sudden you'll see you'll
get some distance and you don't really
crave sugar anymore so it's much easier
to stop it
a lot of people their body is burning
glucose constantly
and they are dependent on getting
glucose every two hours they feel really
shaky they're like oh my God my blood
sugar is low you know I told the story
in the book that freaked me out that
there was a woman who would not go to
things if she wasn't going to be able to
eat every 90 minutes or whatever she had
so for this book I interviewed a bunch
of people and got all their stories and
it was amazing but uh one woman
she needs to have snacks in her purse
constantly while she needed to like if
she was invited to something she would
have to time okay am I going to be able
to leave and get back to my car and eat
in the middle of the event or am I going
to find myself without food for two
hours
she was on this roller coaster this
addiction you know of like Spike
hypoglycemia Spike hypoglycemia every
cell in her body was just burning
glucose she had no metabolic flexibility
she had no ability to start burning fat
for fuel
when you cut out carbs entirely and if
you've been on this glucose addiction
for a long time your body will take a
week two weeks to be able to switch over
to burning fat and that two weeks is
really painful
right and that's probably what you went
through
so you can do it you can go cold turkey
or you can sort of ease yourself into it
a bit better using my hacks Etc so you
teach your body to burn fat again you
get back some of that metabolic
flexibility and then you know a month in
if you want to cut out sugar entirely
it's not going to be hard you're no
longer going to be controlled by this
craving Center being activated every 90
minutes in your brain it's a very
different experience walk people through
that protocol if you want to ease your
way into it and not do the White Knuckle
approach that I did okay the protocol
would be
start with your breakfast so change your
breakfast first go from having a sweet
breakfast that is just starches and
sugars to having a savory breakfast
built around protein you can keep
starches in your breakfast for taste
like bread for example and if you want
something sweet have whole fruit okay
what would you recommend it's
interesting that you recommend fruit
what would you recommend for I didn't
say I recommend it I didn't say I
recommend it I say if you want to eat
something sweet at breakfast because
you're used to it have whole fruits
because fiber is there so it's less
glucose Viking for breakfast I'd
recommend a high protein breakfast
so I love omelettes with feta and
tomatoes you know things like that
ultimately like starting your day with
protein is the best thing you can do but
in order to get people there you have to
go through a few steps protein or fat
and protein
protein first some fats as well is
really a good idea the protein egg
whites better than full eggs no no
that's been that's been debunked super
long time ago we don't have to worry
about eggs anymore
many people listening to this will be
surprised to hear that so for a long
time we thought that
if you ate something that had
cholesterol in it it would lead to high
cholesterol in your blood and people
also thought that oh high cholesterol is
bad it's going to give me a heart attack
those two pieces have been debunked one
we now know that when you eat something
that has cholesterol it actually doesn't
really turn into cholesterol in your
blood
second we also know that having high
total cholesterol is not a good
predictor of heart disease half of the
people who have a heart attack have
normal levels of cholesterol really Yes
actually didn't know that yeah so we now
know that what's more important is your
LDL type B which is a specific particle
size of cholesterol that's the bad stuff
and we also know that inflammation in
your body and in your blood vessels is
much more predictive of heart disease so
C-reactive protein is a great test to do
that actually predicts heart disease way
better than total cholesterol does so
that's the piece in the blood the food
thing we now know that one of the worst
things to eat that actually makes this
bad cholesterol is fructose
it's sugar that is a much bigger driver
of this cholesterol type than eating
foods that have cholesterol on them as a
result if in the morning you want to
have eggs totally great idea so first
part of the protocol and this is the
only part where I ask people to change
what they're eating is going from a
sweet breakfast to savory breakfast
because most people eating like cereals
and stuff most people are eating um
fruit juice maybe some bread Jam cereal
for sure
most people eat starches and sugars for
breakfast
then maybe they buy a muffin or pastry
or croissant or you know something like
that or maybe they just have a coffee
with sugar in it
most people start their day like that
the thing is if you create a big glucose
Spike at breakfast it actually controls
your entire day your entire day turns
into this roller coaster and if you've
never had a savory breakfast and you've
spent your entire life having a sweet
breakfast you have no idea
how much of a different world it is when
you start your day with Savory Foods to
me it's like in the movie you walk
through the mirror to the parallel
universe like that's that's the power of
switching your breakfast and not having
a glucose bike at breakfast
so that's step one and then I would say
start eating your food in the right
order when it's easy you don't have to
be drastic crazy about it like when it's
easy add a plate of vegetables at the
beginning of your lunch and dinner add
some vinegar to it you can still eat
sugar it's not a problem but if you eat
sugar have it as dessert after a meal
instead of on an empty stomach and then
use your muscles after a meal for 10
minutes if you do those things and this
is all detail in glucose Revolution
you will fundamentally change the
biochemistry of your body and you're
going to help your body Thrive and your
body and you are going to become
Partners in helping you live your best
life
about 80 of the population has these
glucose bikes Tom and not just diabetics
I used to think glucose was just
relevant for people with diabetes most
people still think that this is what I'm
sharing now the science this
cutting-edge science is showing us that
every single person is going to benefit
from this it's easy it's gentle it's fun
you feel amazing like what else so is it
really that simple so we've got
um don't eat the sweet breakfast yeah
get your protein maybe a little bit of
fat eat in the right order you're adding
in some vinegar add vegetables to the
beginning of your meal too and all of
the benefits from your protocol that it
really is that that plus I would say
when you do eat sugar make sure it's as
dessert not on an empty stomach and the
movement after meals is good there's
other hacks in here like putting
clothing on your carbs Etc but you're
gonna have to explain that to me yeah I
will so but if you do these things it's
truly
um
it changes you from the inside out you
know like these spikes your glucose
levels respond instantly to what you're
doing so if you put these four or five
things in place which are not very hard
like things change from within for real
on a cellular level it's like a whole
different world and actually right now
so I'm running a study on people from my
own Instagram community so I have about
like a million something followers on
Instagram now and last week I kicked off
a study and this is now closed and I've
recruited the people but I have a few
thousand people who are going to go yeah
who are going to go through this exact
protocol I mentioned to you so we're
going to start with changing our
breakfast and we're adding veggie
starter we're adding vinegar and we're
doing movement and we're going to do
this over four weeks and I'm measuring
I'm asking them to tell me about their
Cravings or hunger their happiness their
energy and then they're going to report
to me anything that happens so for
example I have a lot of females in the
study who might have hormonal issues
period stuff so they're going to report
that a lot of men too are going to
report on performance or whatever they
they see fits I want to start doing more
of these things because so far I've just
been translating other people's Research
into this information that's easily
accessible but now actually I have a
community of people who are really Keen
to just take this to the next level so
that's kind of the future how many
people in your community use the CGM
very few because most people in my
community have a hard time affording for
example my 20 book you know and those
are the people I want to serve first so
I I think
hard to say maybe like five percent of
people who are a CGM less the problem is
they see gems on the market right now
are really expensive you know that like
200 minimum per month uh so very few
people can actually afford them and
personally I think the cgms that are
currently on the market are not yet like
amazing and great for the wellness
audience I think they're still very much
in the biohacker sphere of things which
is totally fine but what would you want
them to change I would want them to stop
focusing so much on the number and give
people like um a summary of how they're
doing that is Human Instead of being
like 85 92 and then the person has to
figure out what the [__] that means
because it's scary
I get messages every day yeah in what
way people message me and they're like
my glucose was at 85 now it's 92. is
that a spike is it bad am I okay am I
diabetic like data without proper
support and reassurance is really scary
for most people who are not super well
versed in you know just devices and data
in general so I would want them to
change that and I still think on the
education piece is a lot missing I think
we could do much much better let's do
some of it right now what would you
because for me the I was startled by how
edifying wearing a continuous glucose
monitor was things that I didn't think
would spike me spiked me the one that
freaked me out this still I get very
enthusiastic about this so obviously I
knew if you exercise you burn glucose
and my wife and I had ice cream and I
was wearing a CGM let me tell you
that'll sober you up real fast about
your ice cream so I'm eating the ice
cream I'm looking at my number on the
CGM it's just going up up up like 100
110 120
140 50 60 175 I was like holy [__] so
now I'm like I'm really starting to get
worried like this is really high and so
I started doing air squats
now I did I did a lot I probably did
close to 300 air squats but my number
you can just watch it coming back down
down down down like as it's not real
time but it's fast like I would say
within
I probably did them over the span of two
and a half hours and over that span of
two and a half hours it dropped right
back down to I think I pulled it back
down into like the 80s it's amazing so I
was like what like I was shocked at how
much I could manipulate that number your
muscles are your best friend in this
glucose world and that's one of the
reasons why I tell people if you're
gonna eat something that's high in sugar
do it before or after you use your
muscles right the best time to eat a
cookie is before you go workouts because
it's not going to have that big of an
impact on your body you're going to get
the pleasure but then your muscles are
going to soak that up real real fast now
do you get the glycation of the tissues
if you exercise and it goes right into
the muscle or
because it's being used by the muscle
like does that not happen so actually
there's another question here which is
sometimes when you exercise you see a
glucose bike have you ever seen that you
were exercising you had not eaten and it
created a glucose by yes but not like a
big spike at least it gets a much bigger
Spike than I do okay because she works
out a lot harder let's start with that
but
so it's your first question like do you
get glycation if it goes straight to
your mitochondria to be used for energy
no that's what's really cool about it
and the second cool thing that happens
when there's a bunch of glucose arriving
in your bloodstream from ice cream for
example usually your body is going to
release insulin to bring that glucose
and store it away the problem is over
time too much insulin is a key driver of
type 2 diabetes okay
if after the ice cream you start
exercising your muscles are going to
update that glucose without the need for
insulin really yes I always thought it
was still using it no so when your
muscles are exercising they do not need
insulin to update glucose which is why
it's so cool
that's really powerful so I'll do that
now if we're going to have like a proper
cheat like if it's the holidays or
something then I'll do and I usually use
legs legs and back just because I mean
they're the biggest muscle Booty Man use
your booty I guess I use my booty I'm
gonna say maybe a little less exciting
for a guy but yes I hear you uh and it
you really can mitigate like really
mitigate the effects something that
might Spike me to 180 190 I can keep to
130 let's say by even doing it before I
eat or what I'll normally do is I'll do
throughout the day that way it's not
like super obnoxious so we'll do a bunch
of air squats leg extensions
um might throw in a little back a little
chest just to like round it out why not
uh it's really it's so cool and so
that's why one of my hacks is this like
10 minutes of movement movement after
your meals
you can actually just go for a walk and
you can like fold your laundry or play
with your dog or do the dishes like even
just that within 90 minutes of the end
of a meal is going to significantly curb
that Spike and so instead of
experiencing the spike having the
inflammation the glycation the insulin
then experiencing the crash which puts
you on that Cravings roller coaster that
we're so familiar with with this 10
minutes you're reducing the spike and
you're flattening the crash so like
you're acting on so many different
powerful levers here to reduce the
symptoms and you feel different you
really do
really different this is one thing I'm
glad you talk about because
so I come from a morbidly obese family
and trying to like convince him this
isn't a moral thing like I'm okay if you
never lose weight I'm not gonna love you
more if you get in shape so this is just
about how do you feel how long are you
going to be around
but trying to convey like you will feel
better and yes without your protocol
anyway it's a little bit brutal getting
to the other side but
it is so worth it you just you feel you
sleep better uh your joints don't hurt
clear thinking more energy it's really
really transformative it is but it's so
hard and I feel like to do the things to
do the thing sometimes when people think
it has to be a cool turkey thing I I
work on helping people change their
behavior in very simple painless ways
you know these hacks I specifically made
them so that they're a no-brainer
they're easy to do they don't require
you any effort and then slowly you start
feeling better and then it becomes this
virtuous cycle you're like whoa I feel
way better today than I did yesterday
let me continue you know because it's
hard to get people to change their
behaviors it's one of the hardest things
like ever until you do it yes because
now that I'm so used to feeling good I
don't cheat Not So Lisa and I used to
cheat a lot like like we would do we
would starve ourselves all week and then
all weekend we would just go bananas and
eat as much junk food as we could fit in
our faces and it was admittedly it had
like almost an orgy quality to it it was
so bombastic and like I would get up
early in the morning and I would drive
to my favorite restaurant to get my
favorite dessert and so it had an
excitement so you could make a Saturday
feel like Christmas Day and there's a
cool thing to that but you end up
feeling so gross that now I don't do it
not because I'm even really worried
about anything it's just I don't like to
feel like that do you remember Tim
ferriss's uh for our body and had that
slow carb diet thing which was kind of
the same thing like six days you eat
cane and then you pig out I did that too
I just wanted to test everything I'm
just super curious and I just felt so
[__] during those days
and I was like oh yep and my
interception like the my ability to feel
the inside of my body is really high and
really good and so if I eat a bunch of
crap and I just do full or do you think
I feel horrible I much prefer like
having a little bit of sugar every day
using my hacks so that I don't get all
the horrible side effects yeah no agreed
and as somebody that wants to live
forever
do you want to live forever yeah for
real so what's your plan the truth is
hitting your career goals is not easy
you have to be willing to go the extra
mile to stand out and do hard things
better than anybody else but there are
10 steps I want to take you through that
will 100x your efficiency so you can
crush your goals and get back more time
into your day you'll not only get
control of your time you'll learn how to
use that momentum to take on your next
big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description alright my friend back to
today's episode I'm gonna die 100 as of
right now there is no other option
but I don't understand people that don't
want to live forever I actually think
that's a
it's the wrong way to view the world so
I get that somebody May
you may face the truth which is as of
right now most people get so sedentary
in their thinking
that they calcify and I think that the
reason because I've often thought why do
humans die like what's the point the
evolution came up with this solution
because we could there are jellyfish
that live forever effectively I mean if
you die a traumatic death you die
traumatic death but they go back to an
embryonic State and they Revitalize and
they just keep doing that for thousands
of years
and we don't why don't we as a species
that has chosen culture as as like our
thing we don't come pre-hardwired with
everything about 50 the other 50 is
total malleability and we've taken over
everything so it's clearly an amazing
strategy but for that to keep going you
have to have a sense of renewal so I get
why
we die from an evolutionary standpoint
it makes sense but I don't understand
why people want to die that's the part
where I'm like uh that's somebody who's
not doing things right here and now for
me the fact that I'm gonna die makes a
lot of my life meaningful
because if I was never gonna die I think
that I would just feel like oh what's
the point of doing this today I can just
do it in 10 000 years like read
Einstein's dreams okay this book this is
one of those things the book says people
fall into two camps there's a bunch of
short stories All About Time and one of
them is hey welcome to the world where
nobody dies and everybody bifurcates
into two kinds of people people that
never do anything because it's always
time to do it tomorrow and then people
do everything because now all the things
you've ever wanted to do you can do you
can do now here is uh an insight into my
mind I actually I say this not with
pride this this has been a problem in my
life and I'd be far more successful if
this weren't true I do not like that you
can be anything you want but not
everything that that haunts me and I
whatever trick of DNA I have that makes
me curious and allows me to be nimble
and to constantly change and evolve
that thing also has given me this real
difficulty saying I'm gonna do this one
thing having to choose like one yeah I
find that distressing in a way that
makes me even now I'm like adjusting my
posture it really bothers me and so but
to bring it back to Einstein's dreams I
very much fall into the camp of I would
do everything because now I don't have
to choose I have to do it sequentially
but you can get good at everything that
is does it give you a little bit of
peace to think that maybe there are
infinite parallel universes where you
have done everything none whatsoever
because I don't get to experience them
in the same way because I for a long
time fantasized about well I could
upload my Consciousness yes but that's
not me no that's my Consciousness your
Consciousness can't do everything right
so there was a movie about this where a
guy is terminally ill and a company
pulls them aside and says we can clone
you including your memories all of that
your family will never know
are you willing to make the deal and so
he's like yeah for my wife to not be sad
for my you know six-year-old son to grow
up or daughter I can remember to grow up
with their father 100 I'll do it but
then the day of like actually handing
off happens and you realize oh that's
not actually me I'm still dying
so now this is I don't even get to go
through the grieving process I don't get
to say goodbye nothing you can't say a
word
and I was like yeah it there is no
Solace offered by that whatsoever it's
funny the different existential
anxieties each of us has my main
existential anxiety is that I am in a
body like that to me has been the most
difficult thing to accept yes since I
broke my back when I was 19 and then I
started having all these mental health
issues I think when I had my accident
and in the intense surgery I think part
of me really thought that I was dead so
you didn't have any of the the you say
it's not quite disassociation but
walking up to that line none of that
before the accident zero interesting
whoa walk people through that moment if
you don't mind yeah absolutely the
accident yes I have questions okay so
the accident itself I was 19 on vacation
with friends on Maui in Hawaii
they're like these fit dudes are like
we're gonna jump off this waterfall
Jesse you want to do it I'm like yeah
I'm cool like I'm not scared of anything
jump off turns out one of my vertebraes
explodes just by hitting the water wrong
no rocks nothing
vertebrae explodes I need to be flown
back to Europe to have surgery I lay in
the hospital bed for a week before the
surgery happens because it was like a
holiday or whatever in Switzerland
when they take me to go to the operating
room I literally thought I was gonna die
because it's an eight-hour surgery that
put metal rods drills metal rods into
your spine are you effectively paralyzed
at this point no no I'm fine you can
move I can move but the problem is if I
move and one of the pieces of vertebrae
ruptures my spinal cord because there
were 13 pieces like floating there then
I'm paralyzed whoa so I couldn't I
wasn't allowed to move
so that was the scariest moment of my
life really but then I wake up and I'm
in horrible pain for a very long time
but then I start having these episodes
of just feeling like my sense of self
fractures I could no longer locate
myself like in my mind what does that
mean
imagine you're really scared of spiders
like really really really scared of
spiders I'm married to someone like that
okay
and I take a living
tarantula and I glue it to your forehead
and it's alive and you can't take it off
yep and you just have to live like that
sounds less than ideal that's how I felt
about existing to me the fact that I was
alive and then I had senses yeah that I
had senses was the most terrifying thing
I could ever imagine whoa yeah so that's
what I was going through so to me like
just existing
was were you framing existence as
suffering because you were in pain oh no
I was way like it felt way more um
ancestral than that like I wasn't even
my Consciousness wasn't even like formed
I felt fragmented it was like
just my brain was like bugging like
really deeply it felt like my brain in
the very inside like the deepest
ancestral part of my brain that's just
aware that you exist I felt like that
part was just not working so I'm walking
around if I look at myself in the mirror
I have a panic attack because I'm like
what is this and I'm seeing my mind is
in many many different places I look at
myself is there any head trauma no
I think it's just the stress that I was
not able to move
wow and I think part of myself thought I
was really dying you know
um so that became the thing I was the
most scared about and it still happens
like once in a while when I go through
something very stressful like that thing
comes back I'm like
[__] I'm in a body like this is so
[__] weird you know it's kind of like
a different part of me I think maybe my
Consciousness the one that's not really
in the body and that goes back to the
universe when you die like that part
just being like whoa you just dropped
the bombshell on us here so are you a
duoist I don't know what that means a
mind and body are two separate things or
sorry the the spirit and the body are
two separate things
foreign
I don't know if I framed it that way but
I definitely feel like there are
different parts of me and that they're
not all one thing like
I think dying is important for me
because I want to be part of the fabric
the energetic fabric of the universe and
I think that happens through birth and
Consciousness arises and you kind of
like carry this little piece of the
universe with you and then you die and
you fall back into like a dolphin
jumping you know you go up and back down
to me that's kind of how I see my life
but when the dolphin jumps back under
the water it's still the dolphin yeah
but it's now merged with the yeah but
that's what I'm trying to get to do you
feel like I feel like the dolphin would
then dissolve okay yeah I feel like
before I was born I was part of just the
energetic universe and when my body will
die I'll just be back part of the
energetic universe so actually dying
does not scare me and you don't think
while alive that you're part of the
energetic universe so that's the thing
I'm working on being more aware of
because to me being in a body feels very
separated from the universe and so I
have to remind myself like I'm actually
floating in this Universal energetic
soup and like it's okay Jessie like
you're still part of the universe you're
not this little isolated thing absolute
reverse of what most people have it's
like being dead freaks people out yeah
it doesn't freak me out at all but being
alive they're like word I know that is
really interesting have you done
psychedelics yeah
well now you have to tell me so first of
all I've only micro dosed so I've never
had like a real experience but I am
beyond curious so given that you have
this tendency towards what word should I
use because you don't say disassociated
I call it splitting splitting perfect so
given you have this tendency towards
splitting I would think that would be
exacerbated by psychedelics was it it
depends on the dose on the context and
not Ayahuasca but like acid mushrooms
Etc okay it depends on the dose and for
me for a long time psychedelics we're
just gonna show me the parts of myself
that was still broken like at the same
time as this splitting happens I started
having panic attacks and I became hyper
aware of my breathing in my heart and I
was like I'm breathing and I have a
heartbeat oh my God it's so weird like
literally like being in the body was so
strange so I had to First go through the
process of healing that fear and now I'm
cautious to be honest like I only do
them in specific settings usually
ceremonial settings I take very little
doses because I'm very like porous you
know like things affect me
very quickly but what I usually get from
them is
yeah you're in a body right now and
that's okay
you need to be more comfortable with
this you know and and find the things in
your life that make that more
livable so I write music for example
that's a really big outlet for me
um I have to take very good care of my
body and just make sure I'm healthy
otherwise
that's interesting so one tying
um mental health concerns to diet I
think is really important as somebody
who struggled with anxiety massively and
then finally realizing oh my God this is
the vast majority of this is Diet
related yeah that was absolutely a
transformational breakthrough for me in
fact Lisa was just on a live and I
happen to be sitting next to her and
she's telling somebody asked about hey I
have this 18 year old anxiety what do I
do she's like I've never struggled with
anxiety but therapy can be really
powerful so I write in the computer and
make it as big as I can I'm like anxiety
equals diet I'm like a hundred percent
that person needs to figure out their
diet absolutely not that they won't also
maybe need therapy but I'm like the
reason that we have this insane influx
of anxiety now I promise you is
instigated by diet it may not be the
sole problem because I bet that social
media doesn't help but it is the body
and the Brain getting in a death Loop of
trying to say hey there's a problem and
then the brain tries to write a story
and it goes oh well we've got that big
test or that girl rejected us or
whatever that's why I'm freaking out no
it's what you're eating and if you get
that in line
things will get a lot better for me
when I first was wearing a glucose
monitor a week in I started having this
splitting episode again I didn't know
why and by the way for the better part
of 10 years I didn't know why they were
happening and when and what to do about
them
I was wearing macduco's monitor so while
I'm splitting I scan
what do I see massive glucose Spike
from that moment on I was like
oh maybe the way I'm living and how I'm
eating is actually causing me to split
over and over again
and that's why I became so fascinated
with glucose of all things because for
me
it was like a light bulb went off like
oh there's something happening inside my
body and my conscious brain
creates these symptoms in these states
maybe so tell me that something
underneath is not you know right
so that was the beginning so completely
agree all right so going back to the
psychedelics so your porous you take a
low dose but you had hallucinations
interesting but even like acid as well
like I take 50 microbes that was called
anything else I might consider it but
acid just sounds [__] terrible that's
bad marketing I don't want to eat
anything crazy LSD I guess yeah that's
better so I text like I was yeah I take
like 50 micrograms and I'm [__] like
15 55 which is small but actually the
problem that happened with me in
psychedelics is that the first time I
took any I didn't really know what I was
doing and so I ended up taking LSD and
mushrooms all the same time God I didn't
know I didn't know anything about this
stuff yeah see that's what I'm saying I
would never yeah I think that was one of
my problems that I didn't have enough of
her like guard rail around this and I
should have been like a bit more but hey
what happened
you know when I was younger I really
wanted to be cool like I really wanted
to be you know to do cool things that's
why I jumped off the [__] waterfall I
didn't want to I was so scared but I
wanted to be cool in front of my friends
so anyway the psychedelics is
interesting but to me most of my work as
a human being has been to actually
ground back into my body and into the
Earth instead of trying to like split my
Consciousness open yeah what do you mean
by that I can't tell if you're like
super woo-woo or not you have an
interesting balance I'm Mega both so
when you ground when you put your feet
in your literal grounding yeah so like
on the grass for example like what I did
earlier outside your house so when you
do this
you're essentially connecting your
nervous system to the Earth's nervous
system yep and any excess electricity
it's an electron transfer exactly and
they excess electrons go into the ground
and so you can rebalance your
electricity this helps me a lot
especially after I fly on a plane I'm I
can feel my voltages all the people say
that it's so weird but I have both Tom I
have like both Mega scientific and also
like I talk to the universe all the time
I just close my eyes and I see stuff and
I'm gonna have to explain that talking
implies that there's a two-way
conversation okay so you do you actually
think words say words it's intuition I
feel it so I think I think I speak to my
higher self or something interesting and
I my intuition is very strong and I try
to
listen to it and grow it you know my
whole journey on glucose Revolution
glucose God is like all this stuff I've
built has been built on my intuition of
you know when to do something what to do
like everything everything even the fact
that I'm here with you today I decide
whose podcasts I come on based on my
intuition when I get the email
so that has served me well so I can you
think you have to train your intuition
yes okay I think so absolutely
absolutely
now do you do you see that as the
universe or as your subconscious
I see that as something that's the
Universe I don't see that as something
isolated way or a literal way poetic way
I don't see that as something in my head
interesting no it's not in my head it's
a sort of dualism here it's not in my
head so there's a higher self that
exists outside of your body yes yes
interesting that I'm connected to yeah
so that to me sounds so I'm really
trying to process through why I
I have a repellent feeling when people
do that so I really thought like why
does it bother me so much
I'm exploring this out loud I don't have
a final answer yet but my thinking goes
something like this
we all have an opportunity to identify
what is true
and the things that are true if if
you're aligned with what is true then
you can more accurately move through the
world the way that I normally say it but
I found like a slight flaw in this the
other day and so I'm trying to be I'm
trying to find a better model for this
but
I have seen people suffer massively
because they don't understand how the
world actually works and when I say they
don't understand how the world actually
works they don't understand how
um money Works how ascending in a job
Works how their brain works how Diet
Works and because they don't understand
those things they suffer emotionally
so some people will argue that there's
there's no absolute I think there is one
absolute that we ought as in a moral
exercise
everybody
ought to do their best to minimize human
suffering now you'll never be able to
eliminate it but I think that that is
the thing that we should strive towards
that's the one thing we should all just
agree like hey is the thing that you're
doing is that increasing human suffering
or decreasing human suffering that feels
like a thing everyone should be able to
get behind
now I don't think there's any Utopias
there's only trade-offs so now it's like
okay you have to one look at the data so
I I had a hypothesis I tried it did it
actually reduce human suffering myself
other people whatever so that which is
true are the things where you go oh if I
do that because it's in alignment with
the way the world actually works then I
will reduce suffering so take glucose
hey maybe you want to eat cake and ice
cream but sorry that's just not how
nature worked out and so if you eat all
of that you end up feeling bad so even
though it's temporarily enjoyable it one
to your point about inflammation it
happens to attack the inside of your
blood vessels which then also generates
the bad cholesterol which then sticks to
the bumps in your inflamed arteries and
you die so it's like whether it should
or not it does and so people that are
aligned with the reality of glucose like
hey maybe fiber shouldn't slow the
absorption of glucose but it does and so
aligning with dosing they just are true
and you can believe them or not believe
them we will almost certainly over time
learn more about the mechanisms and
realize we're only partly right right
now and that there's a better truth to
be something that is more accurate is
probably the right way to think about it
and so we'll refine refine refine and
because your ability to understand the
way that things actually work and thusly
act in accordance and thusly reduce
human suffering is why I push back on Wu
because
the the amount of times I see people
that respond super positively to Wu it
ends up moving their life backwards and
from a human suffering standpoint and so
it's like when it's making somebody's
life better whether it's right or wrong
I'm just like word wrong do your thing
exactly but like when I see people like
yeah they're moving in the wrong
direction yeah and wufu's sake just as
because you feel like that's going to
solve all your problems like that's not
the right way to go I completely agree
with you and actually it's pretty
painful even for me to think these
things because it would be so much
easier if I just align with what most
people think or if I align with a
specific religion like at least I would
feel like I'm part of a community right
but the reality is and I can't fight it
my relationship to existence and why
we're here is very personal
and I can't align with what's true like
it's true for me
you know and I think at some point I've
had to just lean into that because
otherwise I was constantly you define
what you mean by true for you
so you say we have to agree on what's
true no very much
true doesn't give a [__] what we agree
on so what did you say we have to agree
on what's right things either are useful
or they're not so meaning if you believe
in gravity your life is going to be a
lot easier than if you don't like
imagine for a second that I damaged the
part of your brain that allowed you to
understand your relationship with
gravity and therefore like even you'll
see in in puppies they understand ooh
walk up to an edge I don't want to go
over there oh yeah yeah so they have an
instinctual understanding of like oh I
can fall and I will get hurt or they've
Fallen an inch and known oh that's an
even farther but we get it right so you
understand you don't know that it's
gravity but you know if I step off the
roof I'm gonna get hurt
if that
gets broken in fact there are people
that can't feel pain they always Die
Young because there's nothing that tells
them don't step off that high space
don't hold your hand on a burner because
why not it doesn't [__] hurt so when
people are disconnected from from
Effectiveness like pain is a way of
aligning you to Effectiveness if you do
this thing you will damage your body and
then damaging your body you're more
likely to die okay so all I'm saying is
there are ways to behave that line up
with things that will and this is the
flaw that I found that will move you
towards your goal so I'll give you an
example Steve Jobs and I don't know the
story well enough but it's it's
directionally accurate was convinced
that he could fight the cancer by eating
fruit yeah and that's a bunch of [__]
sugar yeah and that hastened the decline
of a person who I wish were still around
so you get people who think that they're
going to pray their cancer away and
while I think that the mind is
freakishly powerful and that in no way
shape or form am I saying that the mind
and aligning your mind and like telling
you like let me tell you if I had cancer
I'd be like envisioning my T cells going
in and like killing the cancer I would
pray I would laugh I would [__] do
everything but I would also look at like
how do I create
um a genetically specific treatment to
me that has some scientific rigor that
you know is is hopefully going to be
even more effective so I would pull out
the kitchen sink but my thing is we will
find over time one of them actually
works better than the other and to not
continue to want to figure out what
really works like if I hear somebody use
the word Quantum and they mean magic I
want to punch through the TV I'm like
the [__] like I get it or let's just
throw AI at this it'll work you're not
saying that but AI turns me on but okay
I mean like the thing is Tom like my my
personal relationship to whatever higher
self or intuition
is one of the main reasons that I've
been able to achieve what I have
achieved the fact that I felt when to do
things that I felt which people to meet
with people to talk to has been
fundamental to me making useful stuff
and helping people right everything from
the design of the cover to the feeling I
had when my agent reached out to me to
what posts to do to how I react to
emails I get from journalists or
whatever to which people to call to but
in the book to what kind of stories to
do on Instagram like a lot of the stuff
has been driven by my intuition I don't
know what the [__] that is
but it works for me to tell you can I
tell you what it is yeah tell me pattern
recognition so there's a reason that
your average seven-year-old is not going
to be able to do that their brain isn't
fully developed they don't know how to
interpret the signals from their body
and they just haven't done enough Cycles
to be able to put things together so for
instance I am inhumanly good at
identifying who's going to be a prick
and who's not
what did you think of me when you first
met me uh you are instantly warming no
no you know better than that you are
incredibly warming uh you know that you
are I can tell in the way that you
behave and so
but the reason that I can do that is
twofold one I probably have a genetic
disposition that I can read micro
Expressions maybe I'm also just better
at
when I see something I remember it for
the next time so I know that there's
part of it I have not earned at all but
the other part of it is that I have
spent 15 years more now almost 20 years
interviewing people to hire and so I've
seen thousands of people actually the
literal number at this point is probably
about 1600. I've seen 1600 people in an
interview setting and then I got to
watch that play out over they actually
got hired was I right was I wrong and so
that's why I asked you when you brought
it up earlier I said you have to train
intuition you said yes so all of my
defenses go down recognition seems to be
right I don't think it's the universe
speaking to us but by the way I'm very
open if it ends up being that the
Universe really is speaking to us word
like I don't care I don't have a dog in
the fight I'm just saying like we want
to figure out what is actually true
maybe it's just different names you know
for Me Maybe I call it my higher self or
whatever but actually I could be like
hey pattern recognition software in my
brain like help me with this one like
should I answer this email I don't care
what we call it here's why I care what
we call it and maybe I'm crazy but if
you say to the people that listen to you
who are all running experiments in their
own lives hey guys this is intuition you
have to train it you're going to pick an
area and you're going to get good at
this you're going to run tests and come
up with a hypothesis about hey when my
gut feels this way should I do this
thing
and now try it out have that hypothesis
run and see what happens then people I
think will be more aligned with what
they actually need to do in order to get
good at that thing if you're like hey
you need to sit close your eyes and
connect to your body now for me there
was a period in my life where connecting
to my body told me that something bad is
happening at all times but that was
actually from drinking monster yeah the
energy drink and some people when they
connect to themselves they just want to
destroy themselves and destroy
everything right the and by the way I
don't actually talk about this nor do I
give any advice on this topic because
I'm still in the data Gathering phase so
your view on this is actually really
helpful because I know that in 10 years
I'm going to want to go into mental
health in one way or another and I'm
trying to figure out like
could I use to mental health when I'm
doing to glucose which is find the
latest signs turn it into easy tips and
show you visually
what impact it's having because people
love seeing images and they believe
images and so it's a good way to
illustrate science and so I'm wondering
like how do we measure for example
nervous system state in a way that I can
show you to be like hey when you
shake after something stressful happened
your nervous system calms down and
that's better and you can see it like
this and that's good for your mental
health right but like the mental health
phase is so complicated and I agree with
you do you call it woo do you call it
intuition do you call it stress do you
call it nervous system like I don't even
[__] know glucose is much simpler
it's like this is your blood sugar level
it's much easier to understand like
Mental Health
and your brain
a yes I think you will be able to have
that impact you are
when Lisa and I were first talking about
you because we for people that don't
overlap with us Lisa and I have
interviewed you on the same day and so
we were talking about you know what we'd
read and all that and I was like man
she's really good at taking complex
ideas and making them accessible I've
read
two dozen books on glucose and yours
really is for somebody that that wants
like an actionable understanding of it
it's money
so you applying that same idea to mental
health I think is incredible I also
think that we're going to find that it's
probably more related to diet
environmental toxins and things like
that than we want to believe not
entirely but I think it's emotional
processing like how do you metabolize
emotions how do you move them you know
how do you it's energy it's like voltage
growing through your body and that's
something I've had to deal with my you
know the past 10 years because otherwise
I get overwhelmed so I've had to learn
to ground and to shake and to take old
showers to train my nervous system to be
more resilient Etc I think that's the
direction I'm going to go into it like
easy tips to make your nervous system
more resilient so your mental health is
more resident as well yeah that's really
interesting what draws you so much to
Mental Health my own suffering
truly just because
it was such a black box when I started
developing those splitting episodes I
was living in London and the people I
was around you know my friends
they were very cerebral and I felt
really really really alone like I had
nobody older to turn to until I moved to
California and then I met people who
were like yeah you went through a
traumatic event stress is held in the
body like let's move it you know shake
like zebras shake after they were chased
by a lion I knew nothing of that so I
was holding I think so much stress in my
body I didn't know what I was supposed
to do I don't know I was supposed to put
it somewhere I was clueless you know I
was 19 like I've and so for 10 years
I could never be alone could never sleep
in a house by myself whoa why I don't
understand that because being because
existing was so scary and being alone
made you aware of that yeah so I always
had to be what is it about being around
other people the funny thing is I get
this so intimately safety uh I felt more
calm it's like my brain just kind of
went to that place when I was alone
because if I was alone I'd be like my
bedroom be like hey
why are we in a body you know just like
stupid [__] and that would just come
back up and I'd be like no
and just being alone brought that back
up I actually had to at some point sit
with it and actually last year for the
first time I came to LA in October of
last year so exactly a year ago and I
was like I'm gonna spend five weeks
alone
and that was like the biggest test of my
life and I was able to do it but back 10
years ago I couldn't spend did you talk
to anybody yeah yeah but I was I was
living somewhere I never physically in
the same space exactly and actually what
has helped me so much in my stress of
being alone is remembering that I'm not
alone that there are people I love who
also exist in this plane and they're
also on this planet and so feeling like
this connection has really soothed that
stress because of my whole body
weirdness thing I feel disconnected you
know how I explained like before birth
after death for me it's really easy to
see that I'm just part of this soup as a
human my challenge as Jesse as a human
being is to remember that even if I'm in
this body I'm still connected to the
universe soup
that to me is the biggest challenge so
all my insecurities I think and my
stresses have stemmed from there
it's very interesting talk what do you
think about the differences between men
and women like I found myself very
surprised when you were talking about
people being cerebral and I don't take
that as like a positive thing just
people sort of locked in their head that
feels inherently masculine to me in a
way that I've never thought through so
I'm just super curious I don't think so
I think most people are completely
disconnected from their bodies and to me
that's what cerebral means like people
who are not aware of how their body is
doing what emotions are in themselves
there's this word interoception which is
like the the ability to introspect about
your internal state so if I close my
eyes right now
like I feel okay like there's a bit of
like adrenaline in my stomach like
there's energy in my legs like I can
feel everything you know and that took
me a long time to be able to do before I
was clueless
so I was just hanging out with people
who were in their early 20s who were
studying who were just like partying and
studying math I mean I didn't have
teachers to turn to who were like let me
explain to you your body
holds stuff so if your brain does not
feel good maybe you look at your body
and then I did craniosacral therapy for
the first time say that again
craniosacral therapy so sacral uh so
cranio is here sacrum is the base of
your
spine and so craniosacral therapy is
literally you lay down and this person
puts their hands under your head
and doesn't move for an hour and that
yeah and that
puts your body in a state of safety
where things can start coming out and
processing so the first time I did it
this person held my head like this and
all of a sudden I started feeling in my
legs the exact same pain that I felt
when I woke up from my surgery
intense burning in my sciatic nerves
intense and then I started crying and
crying it was just stuff in my body that
needed to be moved you know and until
you feel safe even touching your head do
that it just made me feel safe and it
gave my body
the space to process what it needed to
process that's how I see it all right
here's going to be a super random thing
this is one of the most earth-shattering
things I've ever heard this changed my
thinking about life no joke my mom did
not mean it to be this deep
but she gave me an incredible Insight
that ended up influencing my marriage
massively and she said uh so that you
know women need to trust a man to have
an orgasm and I was like what that was
such a bizarre statement I was like
trust and orgasm how could they possibly
be related and so that was one of those
where I was like wow so when you talk
about someone putting their hands on
your head and you feel safe that's such
a foreign concept to me and I don't know
if that's me and other guys would be
like no Tom of course that's exactly
what we feel or if it's like all guys in
the world right now are tilting their
head like a puppy going what that's
really interesting
I can't relate to that but that doesn't
mean that it isn't fundamental and
amazing we don't know [__] man I can't
tell you exactly why it works I think
the people who practice it they kind of
know that no matter who they are like if
a stranger held your head like that
would you still feel safe
no I don't think so so this was someone
you knew and trusted no she was a
practitioner that I got introduced to um
through a friend and then I did it for
years actually like once a week you
would just go and she would hold your
head for an hour would you run through
the same things or would it be different
every time it's literally
I have no idea sometimes I didn't feel
anything sometimes something would come
up and I would feel an emotion or
something but most of the time I felt
nothing
it was just a place where I felt like I
could finally
let my nervous system just
rest and in that state of rest of the
nervous system
stuff that was stuck that were stuck
were able to come out and move through
me you know do you meditate
no it doesn't really work for me because
what you're describing is exactly how I
feel when I meditate other than that it
comes out of me that I don't feel but
the sense of like totally like letting
go relaxation my but my nervous system
for me it's the body so in order to get
to that state meditation doesn't work I
need to shake or stretch or ground
you know that that works for me I think
just my body is like really that's what
needs to be calmed I think my my mind is
okay it's just that like it's the body
thing that you know when you're when you
go through something stressful and you
can lay down and
um put your feet against a wall and lay
down on the floor and just kind of
bounce off the wall and that rocking
soothes your nervous system and really
flushes like stress out of your system
those are the kinds of things I use a
lot to move the emotion because I know
that if I don't move them then I start
splitting you know a couple days later
so that's what I've learned so I'm
actually doing pretty [__] good now I
understand really fascinating okay so uh
obviously we have a massive diet
approach
uh I can't remember the the two words
but cranial something yeah I mean that's
just one thing I'm just trying to go
through some of the things you do here I
want to see if there are more uh I do
shaking shaking I do grounding
stretching definitely avoiding glucose
spikes was the number one foundation for
me I I Journal I sleep as much as I can
I try not to drink alcohol
um and I spend time with people that
make me feel safe and peaceful and I
sing that really helps me the vibration
like oh my wife
can't seem to save her life
sings and loves it so much
it is really interesting it's really
interesting so you guys both need to
move your bodies though in very
different ways
I need to still my body which is
interesting I need to be in the dark
eyes closed completely relaxed and and
this is the one thing that
it sounds like woo but there's almost
certainly something to it you're like
Dory guys no no no what whatever is true
is true please understand that if
tomorrow I realize that all of the
things they're saying are accurate I
will get behind them a thousand fold and
be like I was incorrect it is only that
I see people suffer when trying to chase
that and it isn't adding up to anything
and my gut instinct is simply that
person has identified something that
works for them but in the way they
explain it they make it mystical yeah
rather than grounding it in something
that somebody else can experiment with
to see if it works for me for meditation
I can meditate in any posture any pose
whatever but
the one where I'm like if you'll let me
cross my legs Indian style and rest my
Palms like like this for people that are
watching on my lap oh my God there's
something about the energy circling I
don't know but it feels so good and then
if it's pitch black when I do it
oh wow and if I really want to get to
another level it's pitch black already
outside and I can drape something like a
t-shirt a really soft t-shirt over my
face
that is Heavenly Heavenly like that if
I'm really stressed out that is a silver
bullet it doesn't just help me it is a
silver bullet it is unreal that's so
fascinating if I'm really stressed out I
need to spend an hour on a rug kind of
like this one and just stretch every
joint in my body and just like move in
to whatever tightness I feel and really
just like and that moves all the stress
out of me
interesting yeah this is just like Diet
people have got to experiment for
themselves because sitting the way that
I sit but my wife does I know yeah this
is in the same way that I think that all
this glucose information people need to
know this like it's just basic it's
basic education to feel good to me this
is the same level as drink water and get
some sunlight like we need to know this
I want to also help people learn all
these really easy tips whether it's
meditation and doing that whether it's
you know breath work or whether it's
shaking whatever like
we need to show people that it's not
scary and it's easy and there's a
scientific reason that it works and then
you can really find these tools that
make you feel better that's what
motivates me and I love that talk to me
a little bit more about inflammation
what is inflammation why is it so
problematic and how do we reduce it
so you know when you cut your hand or
something your skin and then there's a
little hole and then it gets red around
the the hole like that's inflammation
that's your body sending a bunch of
stuff to help repair the cut so it's a
state of alert
it's a state of alert that your body
goes into and it's usually very
beneficial
the problem arises when inflammation is
chronic so constant and it's just not
going anywhere that's chronic
inflammation how do we end up there so
there's a few different Pathways but
what I want to say is that today three
out of five people in the world will die
of an inflammation-based disease like
heart disease heart disease cancer yeah
cancer is information based heart
disease Alzheimer's cancer type 2
diabetes like they all have a massive
inflammatory component and for the brain
inflammation is also something that
probably drives a lot of mental health
symptoms right because your brain is
full of cells that are full of
mitochondria that are very sensitive to
all the stuff that can happen to them so
inflammation lots of different things
that can drive it I mean um from not
exercising to smoking to alcohol
whatever but in the context of food
what happens is that if you have big
glucose and fructose spikes as I
mentioned like your mitochondria become
overwhelmed they create reactive oxygen
species and the free radicals and then
those lead to inflammation too much
glycation also leads to inflammation too
much insulin also drives inflammation so
it's just a it's just like a a big
concerto of lots of stuff that drive out
inflammation
stress drives up inflammation everything
drives up inflammation so the more you
can reduce it the better off you'll be
and oftentimes it's just simple things
exercise reduces inflammation that's
good enough sleep reduces inflammation
avoiding glucose Spike reduces
inflammation
etc etc
yeah this is one of those things that
when I watch people struggle suffer
whatever it really does come down to a
few simple things that you can do
that now because I interview so many
people just seems so self-evident but
then I'll speak to people close to me
and they're just like wait what that has
that impact
um like what you were saying about
ancestral fruit it's like guys in Apple
today is not the same as an apple you
know 50 000 years ago
and
when we begin to understand all these
little insults and things that we do to
our body but if you want to like really
help yourself it's get plenty of sleep
savory breakfast Savory veggies first
get that fiber moving after eating no
sugar in an empty stomach some vinegar
if you feel like it if it floats your
boat that's that'll get you a long way
because if you start with a diet
approach with these easy things then
your sleep gets better right so you
can't just say like okay I'm gonna sleep
more sometimes you just can't sleep
because you wake up you have a hard time
falling asleep and if you go the glucose
angle a lot of things fall into place
it's a really good place to start you
know that's what it is it's a really
really good easy gentle enjoyable place
to start where you will feel the effects
immediately that's why it's so powerful
one thing I want to get back to is fat
so I am very concerned about people that
store fat I'm also worried about people
that can't store fats because of you
actually a lot you know fat actually
also is inflammatory exactly exactly
yeah
but having fat itself becomes
inflammatory so thinking of fat as an
organ yes so how one do you agree that
thinking of fat as an organ is the right
way to think about it meaning that it it
will produce hormones
and that thusly that organ producing
hormones affects your body and can make
it like fat protects itself it doesn't
want to be broken down it wants to
resist being burned
and if it resists being burned and it's
inflammatory as you begin to pack it on
and you even mentioned earlier that
there are some people that they're never
burning fat they have so much insulin in
their system which is there because of
the glucose that they you can't burn fat
if you have elevated insulin levels
which means super hungry and hungry and
hungry even though you have all these
reserves right you know and that's a
vicious cycle and then it [__] up your
hunger hormones and you're hungry all
the time but you have all these reserves
uh do I agree fatness is an organ I
don't really like have a strong opinion
about the wording I agree that fat is
something that has an impact for sure I
find it unfortunate that there's so much
stigma around it and shame and all this
kind of you know around having it yeah
this whole industry built on the fact
that you know if you have cellulites on
your legs like you're not worthy of a
woman it's like what the [__] are you
talking about guys you know this whole
thing about cellulite being bad was
invented in the 70s by a magazine they
were like what's the next thing we can
make women feel really bad about and
they were like oh what about those
little dimples women get on their legs
and they were like cellulite if you have
it you're not sexy
so anyway the whole industry around it
is really [__] up is it better to have
less fat for your health yes of course
but I don't like going after fattening
if you're fat it's bad you should do
something about it because I know what
it's like to be on the receiving end of
diet culture and all the shame
surrounding it so
it's not because you lose fat that
you're gonna feel happier and you know
it's a side effect you know weight loss
is good as a side effect but I think the
better way to go about it is to think
about health and then as a consequence
fat loss happens
yeah I sort of agree so here's my
concern nature
has certain results on the brain so the
brain as a result of evolution for
whatever reason
one being lean feels good yeah now I
Won't Say I'm not going to push to
skinny women should absolutely carry
more fat you have to be very careful
because you can lose your period if you
get too lean so this is not a I'm not
saying oh people should be way fish or
anything like that but when you're in
what from an evolutionary standpoint
would be a quote unquote healthy weight
meaning literally From the Inside Out
not the outside in but that you're a
healthy weight from the inside out uh
you're going to feel better yeah I don't
want people to feel it's a moral
decision because it's not like you are
not a better person if you lose weight
but you will feel better from just the
going back to my thing about what is
true it is true that as you get your
um your fat in order it will you'll have
a better hormonal profile which will
make you feel better you will have lower
inflammation you'll have more flexible
metabolism there is a thousand things
that are going to be going right for you
that are going to make you feel better I
agree with you I think the only thing is
some people go to a very unhealthy
extremes and follow like detox diets and
Shake stuff just to lose weight and
that's really what I'm against the
industry around shame you can get into a
death spiral there is no doubt no and so
it's just how you get at it it's not
coming from shame it's coming from
desire
yeah and look I am well aware that
people can get into really dark places
pursuing that but I think they're
already in a dark place and that just
becomes the way that it manifests not
that that thing itself is the cause
yeah now man trust me when I say I'm not
downplaying the Mental Health crisis
that I think we're going through right
now
uh that I think is wildly exacerbated by
social media are the fake body filters
and stuff and I have a half sister and
she's 16 and just like seeing the world
that she's growing up in and all the
Social Media stuff and how she even
filters her own face like I'm posting
stuff it's just like it's so toxic man
it's really that [__] is scary
it is and I'm not sure what to make that
because I am in love with Virtual Worlds
and being able to build a virtual
identity but I'm in love with it because
I know how to use it in a way that
doesn't become problematic like an adult
I am an adult I don't know that does
inoculate me in in some ways for sure
for sure in fact I don't know why I'm
downplaying that that's huge and I am
very glad that I did not have social
media as a kid that should terrifies me
it's one of the reasons I'm very glad I
don't have children
uh but
yeah so I'm super excited about what the
future brings in fact that before we
started rolling I told you I saw this
Tech demo today that was [__]
unbelievable and so that kind of stuff
gets me so hyphy about where we're going
but at the same time I know how quickly
people can get a deranged relationship
with themselves technology instant
access to the world's opinions it it's
tough It's a lot but then again
everything I've built I basically built
on the back of Instagram if I didn't
have Instagram to start my glucose
goddess account three years ago
I wouldn't be here with you today to me
it gave it gave me first of all feedback
during three years daily feedback from
the community telling me what they like
what they didn't like what's okay what's
triggering like I've just built my
message and my content based on just
constant feedback I built my content
like I used to build products in Silicon
Valley with constant user feedback right
and Instagram
if that didn't exist it just wouldn't
happen so there's amazing sides to it
but also I decided early on to not post
any of my personal life on Instagram
people don't know who my friends are you
know where I live like it's just
completely separate because otherwise I
think it can get very very dangerous
there's so much hate and stuff going on
on there I've projected myself
crazy I can already tell you right now
based on things I've said you shouldn't
read the comments on this video because
yeah I'm not going to because I used to
I used to have a Google Alerts that
would send me another every time my name
pops up on the internet and Tom I
thought that it was my job I was like I
need to see I need to feel this pain
it's part of my progress and I at the
end of the day I was like actually yeah
like no yeah it's too much yeah but I
don't read the comments anymore but
getting getting some feedback is useful
but getting really unfiltered feedback
is rough it's super I don't know that
it's very helpful no and so I am
simultaneously like you
everything we've done at impact theory
is a result of social media I could not
be more grateful for it and the positive
people I have encountered through social
media I'm very careful how I curate my
feed
um
but at the same time wow is there an
underbelly that is terrifying and people
can be so mean it's crazy and look I I
try to remember if you're throwing that
kind of Darkness into the world you're
in such a gnarly place I have never once
put out like a negative comment into the
world I'm like why would you do that
like that's just that's Dark Energy I
don't want to be in that energy long
enough to type it exactly let alone know
how it's going to end up impacting
somebody's day that's so gross but that
[__] is real man it is real it is real
now I don't know about your Silicon
Valley exploits oh I only know about the
glucose goddess okay so tell me about it
so before actually I first wore a
glucose monitor three years ago four
years ago because I was working in
Silicon Valley and we were testing a
bunch of new devices so I worked at 23
on me for five years oh wow yeah I so to
go take you back so break my back I'm in
London I'm doing a mathematics
Underground grad degree break my back
I'm like okay I want to go into health
and understand what the [__] this thing
is so I study biochemistry in grad
school and then I decide I want to go to
Silicon Valley because that's where the
Forefront of health is in my mind I was
like Health Tech is happening there
so I fall in love with 23andMe I beg
them for a job they gave me an
internship and I ended up staying there
for five years and leading all of the
sort of cutting-edge like Health stuff
we were doing in terms of integrating
new data sources turning genetic results
into action for people translating
science into understandable things
understanding how you build a product
how you work with designers Engineers
how you you know how you prioritize
features how you get user feedback I
mean my time there
really gave me an incredibly solid base
from which to then build my glucose
project it was amazing I had the best
time and now you're full-time oh yeah to
health it's been two years so two years
ago I left 23andMe I actually went back
last week to give a talk it was amazing
so two years ago I left um to dedicate
myself full-time to glucose and when I
first left because I was in Silicon
Valley
and when you're in that environment
whatever idea you have people are like
start a company raise a million dollars
make a tech product so I kind of was
being sucked into that
um mindset of like okay I guess I have
to build a tech company thankfully my
Intuition or my pattern recognition
software or whatever kept telling me
like I just don't want to raise money
like raising money feels really not like
what we should be doing so after playing
with this idea for six months I decided
no I'm going to focus on content
and then a couple weeks later the woman
who's now my agent saw my Instagram and
said hey I think you should write a book
and I want to help you and fast forward
two years later
you know I went from when she met me I
had like 10 000 followers so I'm from 10
000 to you know over 1 million now this
book has sold
over half a million copies in four
months damn throughout the world 40
languages is being translated into
congratulations that's amazing uh number
one bestseller in six countries now so
yeah came a long way it feels like way
more than three years ago then I started
yeah it's very impressive thanks Tom I
know what it takes to build something
like that Jesse thank you so much for
coming on where can people follow you uh
Instagram at glucose goddess and check
out glucose Revolution my little baby
that I made with a lot of love and care
and knowledge it's it really is amazing
it's a fantastic book all right
everybody if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care peace
if you want to learn how to reduce
inflammation and live until you're 105
click here now that our epidemic of
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and memory
loss is laid at the feet of